Welcome to Cinema Summary, ladies and gentlemen.
People change right?
Sometimes for the
worse, and sometimes for the better.
But let's see how bad people can get
This is The Invitation
So, the first things we see are Will and Kira
in a car,
and they have been invited to a reunion
dinner with some old friends of Will.
And Will is anxious about going: It’s been
a while since he’s talked to these friends,
and the dinner is being hosted by Eden and David, Will’s
ex-wife, and David, her current husband.
On their way there, they run into a coyote
that Will has to put it out of its misery:
killing it with a tire iron.
*Yelp of Pain*
and they continue on until finally they get to
Eden’s fancy house in Hollywood Hills.
It's the same house that Will and Eden shared back
when they were married.
As he walks in, Will can’t help but think
about Ty, his son.
Who used to live in the house with them
When he comes out of his flashback, he’s
warmly greeted by his old friends:
Gina, Tommy,
Miguel, Ben, and Claire although they are missing someone else and that's Choi, Gina’s boyfriend.
and after the realize this, that’s when Eden comes downstairs
and she’s happy, she’s touchy-feely, and as she says hello to Will
Maybe it’s her smile or the way she’s
acting, but something about her is off.
and it’s very awkward for everyone involved
and it only gets worse when we meet David: Eden’s current husband, who
kind of looks like a mirror image of Will
down to the beard and green shirt.
Except, David is also like Eden:
being touchy-feely, and happy, and creepy.
Then David gives everyone some wine and makes
a toast and during the toast, Will looks away
and spots a half naked woman standing in a doorframe of a bedroom
who smiles at him and leaves
and moments later we are introduced to Sadie
the woman that Will saw earlier and she’s a bit of a
weirdo and very quirky, and no one know who she is
or why she’s here except Eden and David
Who know her from the support group in Mexico
She’s staying with them to 'help out'
And after an awkward silence, Kira breaks the ice by talking about the coyote
that was killed by Will.
and everyone’s put off by the story except for
Sadie, who thinks that’s pretty cool and
David who respects Will for killing the coyote
out of mercy, and taking away its pain.
So Will decides to take the chance to go to the
kitchen to look around and see how the house
has changed (but you can tell he just wants
some space),
and as he stands near the sink, he
has another flashback: to a memory of Eden
trying to kill herself.
She’s so different now.
It’s strange.
That’s when Eden decides to come in and
get some glasses and we find out that things
have changed: now the windows have bars on
them, and that ever since Mexico, Eden has
been better.
More stable, having gotten over whatever caused
her to try and kill herself.
But as Will listens to Eden, he feels that
something’s off about her.
But Eden reassures Will that she’s okay
and is ‘over it’, whatever that is and
she wants Will to be ‘over it’ too.
As Will comes out of the kitchen he spots
David on the phone and then a few moments
the door bell rings
At first everyone think it’s Choi, Gina’s
boyfriend who still hasn’t shown up, but
its actually Pruitt.
A friend of Sadie, Eden, and David.
A friend, the rest of group have never met.
*Confused and uncomfortable stuttering*
Well you got to admit inviting 2 strangers to a reunion dinner
By the way, where’s Choi? He should
have been here by now!
And Gina tries to call him but can’t due
to bad phone reception.
And then, David locks the door but Will feels
that it’s unnecessary for David to do that
and calls him out on it and although they
don’t make a big deal out of it, David does leave
the key in the door but leaves it locked.
After that ‘confrontation-conversation’,
Eden asks Will to get some firewood from outside
and on his way out, Will passes a room.
And he almost goes in but for some reason,
decides not to.
Outside, he remembers hearing the voice of
his son, Ty, playing in the backyard and as
he stands there, he spots Eden in her bedroom,
hiding ‘something’ in a drawer.
Will comes back inside and decides to go to the bedroom,
where he finds a bottle of pills in the drawer and decides to keep one.
As he is about to sneak out, David catches
him but lets him stay in the room.
To let Will come to terms with the changes
in the house and Will stays there, remembering
better times with Eden.
Remembering their son, who we still haven’t
seen or heard mentioned about around the house.
Back in the common room, the group realize that Eden, Sadie, Pruitt, and David
are part of a cult.
And while they are totally denying it they explain what it is
It's called The Invitation, and back in Mexico, Eden and David met each other there
and they describe it more like a 'support group'
to help people get over their grief and pain.
It’s not just popular in Mexico, it's also popular in America
"Here in LA, New York".
As David explains that there are thousands of other cultists. Uh... "group members"
In the LA/New York Area
The group tries to politely ask them for more details
and David decides to show them a video
on his laptop.
And it’s a recruitment video: hosted by
Dr. Joseph, the cult leader, who teaches some
spiritual, New Age ways to deal with trauma
and the pain of loss.
It’s pretty normal until we see a woman
dying from cancer as she talks about the afterlife
with the cult leader, and as she dies, the
cult leader tries to reassure the people in
the video that she is in a better place.
and the video ends and the group realize they
just watched someone die
and they are either grossed out, freaked out, or trying to be respectful of their beliefs'
with it.
Except Pruitt, Eden, Sadie, and David.
Who insist that “it’s a good thing”.
Turning pain into something positive; getting
rid of your fear of death.
David insists that the cult is GOOD and almost
mentions what happened between Eden and Will
but Will stops him from talking about it.
That’s when Eden praises it and says it’s
transformed her life and she’s better for
it.
But, overwhelmed, Will leaves for the kitchen,
he doesn’t believe for a second that she’s
actually gotten over what happened between
Will and her.
When he finally goes back to the common room,
David apologizes for what he showed and to
make up for it, he suggests that they play
a game.
A game called “I Want”: It’s a game
that David and Eden
played back in Mexico and it's kind of like "I Have Never".
so, Sadie goes first and what she wants
to do is tell everyone she loves them and
then makes out with Gina.
Rules are pretty clear: You get what you want!
Fun if a bit weird.
Gina goes next and she hesitantly says that
she wants cocaine, and David has some and gives
it to her (much to everyone’s surprise).
And then Pruitt goes next and goes into great
detail about his ex-wife.
How he accidentally killed her, in the kitchen after hitting
her so hard that she knocked her head
and he went to jail, and he found
‘religion’ in the cult, and now he's over it
He stills misses her but he doesn’t feel
the pain of loss: after all, he will see her
in the afterlife..
And after THAT, everyone’s super uncomfortable
that was weird, inappropriate and it feels like
Pruitt is trying to persuade them to join
the cult.
And then it's Eden's turn and she wants to kiss Ben
and SHE KISSES Ben with tongue and everything.
By this point, Claire has had enough of this
‘weirdness’ and just wants to leave although
David tries to get her to stay.
But a stern word from Will, gets David to
back off and they let her go with Pruitt going
with her to move his car since his car is
in the way.
And Will can’t help but watch from the window
with suspicion, he doesn’t trust Pruitt;
and that’s when David takes him aside to
chat privately.
And he lays it on Will: since the beginning
of the night, Will has been so suspicious
of them for no reason.
Always questioning him about things like locking
the doors, or watching Pruitt drive his car
out of the way.
He just wants Will to relax, and Will confesses
that he doesn’t really want to be here because
he’s not ready to be here.
and David kind of understands with the y'know, the divorce thing, and that OTHER THING
But Will just wants him to stop talking about it
Then the group go upstairs to eat a lavish
dinner and talk about their lives
Leaving Will to his thoughts as he remembers
the past:
he remembers he was at a fifth birthday of some kid
and something happened involving a bat,
a scream, and overall it’s a very confusing
moment, that’s made worse when he begins to have a panic attack
His anxiety builds up until the moment we see him scream!
and then it cuts to black and then the movie continues.
So outside, Will stands beside the pool, trying
to make a call when Sadie comes by
and she offers to have sex with him.
And if Will wants to be a little rough with her
Go for it.
She likes it rough.
And Will is weirded out by it, and he rejects her offer STERNLY
and tells her to leave him alone and moments later Will
gets a voice message from Choi and listens
to it.
In the message, Choi says that he came to
the house early, but realized that he forgot
dessert and he sent this voice mail to ask
Will to bring cake on his way up.
Choi was here earlier and went into
the house.
And now Will is sure that something dodgy and weird is going on here.
And as Will goes back inside, the group sit
at the dinner table as Eden gives Miguel a cake
But now, Will is fuming and he can’t hold
back anymore and he demands to know where
the F*** is Choi?
Because I just got voice message from him, and Choi
said that he was already here before
at 7 way before everyone else, what is going on.
But Eden and David both try to reassure him that
Choi wasn't here and they haven't seen him
This just makes Will angrier and he continues
interrogating them:
Something weird is going
on in this house like Pruitt and Sadie.
Who are they?
Why are they here?
And "The Invitation" video, what was up with that?
That’s when Will accuses Eden of being in
denial:
Supposedly joining a cult transformed her life?
That is a lie.
She is in denial, trying to ignore the fact
that their son.
Died.
So this is why Ty was never mentioned or seen around the house: he died.
That’s why Will has those flashbacks and
from those flashbacks we can figure out what
happened to Ty:
that on Ty’s 5th birthday, there was an accident, he was playing with another kid
And Ty got hit by bat
This is what I was talking about earlier:
This is what Eden and Will have been avoiding
this whole time:
Talking about their son’s death, because the pain is still there
And  they are not over it. Especially Will.
That’s when the doorbell rings and it’s
Choi!
Turns out he really was here before but never
entered the house because he was called back
to work and left before and that's why he's just arrived now.
And then Will breaks down, apologizing for
what he said and he goes to the bathroom to
cool his head.
And he remembers washing Ty’s small hands.
He can’t stand being inside and so he goes out.
Where he sits with Kira and he confesses
that he hasn’t gotten over Ty’s death
and we get a deep look into Will’s mental
state:
He’s broken and suicidal, he can’t
get over his son’s death, and doesn’t
believe that Eden can just move on and forget their
son like that.
And when Will goes back inside, he goes to see
Ty’s room, the room that he passed by and
almost went into earlier.
Here inside, the room he remembers Ty
his toys left on the floor, and as he lies on the bed he remembers
his son’s face, but all of that is now gone.
And while in this room, Will sees David walking
outside, and lighting a red lantern.
David seems to be waiting for something, watching
for something.
Maybe he was wrong, earlier about Choi but
Will’s gut feeling returns.
There’s something off about tonight’s
dinner.
Will snoops around until he finds and opens
David’s Laptop, where he sees the rest of
video: The cult leader is there calling for
his followers to do something on this night,
ominously saying “Tonight is the night,
our faith is made real”.
Whatever that means, it sounds like something
bad is going to happen.
So Will goes back upstairs, where the group
is served wine glasses, and Will notices the
way Eden and David are serving the wine.
Like they’re excited for something.
He has a bad feeling about this and just before
they all drink (except for Gina who sneaks
a sip): Will breaks his glass and knocks the
cup out of everyone’s hands, telling them
not to drink it.
Sadie gets pissed and attacks Will, screaming
at him “You ruined everything!” only to
be pushed off by Will, slamming her head into a cupboard.
And she doesn't get up after that
This is bad, but it gets worse when Kira notices
Gina, foaming at the mouth.
She is unresponsive as well
Miguel rushes to gives her CPR as Ben tries to call
the police but he can’t get reception, and no
one knows what’s wrong with Gina, and the doors are locked so they can't get out
and as Miguel tries to save her life.
He’s shot.
By David.
Things are getting out of hand
the guests back away from David as Sadie wakes up, and Pruitt is able to calm
David down and take the gun away from him.
Only to shoot Choi, dead.
Furious, Tommy tries to attack David only
to get cut by Sadie, as the rest of the group
runs downstairs and try to leave.
But the doors are locked and the windows are
barred.
There’s no way out
Downstairs, Will is attacked by Sadie but
he manages to knock her down and run into
Eden’s bedroom where he and Kira barricade
the door behind them.
They try to leave through the glass door but
its locked so they’re gonna have to break
it open but then they hear a noise.
Outside, they see Ben come running out of
the house.
Only to get killed by David and Pruitt.
This might be their last chance to escape,
and as Kira and Will sneak out of the bedroom,
they overhear Eden and David talking.
Eden is shocked
It wasn’t supposed to be
like this
everyone was supposed to die peacefully
from the poisoned wine, so they wouldn’t
have do this.
and as Eden’s guilt eats away at her, David
convinces her to join him and kill the rest
of the group.
It’s the only way they can get over their
pain.
As David and Eden walk away to hunt them down,
Kira and Will continue sneaking out only to
spot Sadie bleeding out on the couch, with
a firepoker in her hand.
Will takes her firepoker and goes upstairs
with Kira.
Because he remembers that there was a door
to the garage but when they get there it’s
gone.
Because the house has been remodeled, and now there’s
no way out.
And to make matters worse, Pruitt is walking
up the stairs, ready to kill them.
So, Will and Kira hide until just at the right
moment they strike!
And Pruitt takes a few hits before he sucker
punches Kira, and begins choking out Will
who is saved by Kira at the last moment who kills Pruitt
Just as they’re about to leave, Will is
shot by Eden, who frantically apologizes to
him before she shoots herself.
That’s when they hear David: walking up
the stairs with a knife in hand, and as David
is about to reach them, he’s attacked and
killed by Tommy.
And then someone calls out to Will, it’s
Eden:
Who with her final breath, confesses
that she never got over Ty’s death, and
asks Will if she can be taken outside where
she dies.
So Tommy, Kira, and Will, are the only survivors
of the Reunion.
It’s over and they’re safe now but Will
sees something, past the Red Lantern that
David lit, and then we see: across the valley, across Hollywood Hills,
different houses with their own red lanterns
glowing in the night.
And Kira and Will can only watch and listen
to the sounds of sirens and screams echoing
throughout the night
So what just happened?
Well, if you remember from earlier David lights
a red lantern in his backyard,
and then looks out into the distance, searching for something.
What is he looking for? He's looking for other red lanterns.
because earlier in the film, David mentions that there
are thousands of other cult members in the
LA/NY area
which explains why all the other houses
have the red lanterns: they are full of other cult members who are killing their guests
and are going to kill themselves
It’s kinda sad that so many rich people in
the most expensive real estate properties
in the US could be so miserable. I guess money doesn't buy you happiness
Which brings me to my next point: Why
kill people and what does that have to do
with being free from pain?
David explains to Eden that killing people is the only way to be free from pain
but there's more to it than just that
If you remember from the video, the cult leader tells his followers
that "tonight is the night, our faith is made real."
What he means by this, is that after tonight:
After the guests are killed and the cult members are dead.
They will all go to the afterlife where they will reunite with their loved ones
And they will live happily ever after, free from pain, free from sorrow
Although they were supposed to die together,
which is why Sadie freaks out when Will stopped
knocks the glasses away from everyone's hands
and this isn’t too far fetched from reality
there have been cases of real life cults doing a kind of similar thing
like in Jonestown or in Heaven’s
Gate.
And in fact, Dr. Joseph, the cult leader of the Invitation cult,
kind of looks like the Heaven’s Gate guy.
Anyways, thank you so much for watching ladies and gentlemen
If you enjoyed it, leave a like down below and subscribed to get updated on our latest uploads
Now if you will excuse me
I have a reunion dinner to attend